hello in this video we are going to take
a look at an example of series shunt
feedback in a voltage amplifier with a
practical example of an amplifier we are
familiar with which is the non-inverting
amplifier first of all I have redrawn
the basic structure the generic
structure for a series shunt or series
voltage amplifier which consists of a
feedback network the input voltage or
the feedback voltage is connected in
series with the input voltage with the
source voltage and the output is taken
in shunt the output signal is sampled
in shunt and so basically this could be
our output signal right here Vo
this could be our signal VF feedback
signal and then the input signal will
this be Vs minus VF as you can see just
from applying KVL to circuits and I'm
just gonna write it all out Vin equals Vs
minus VF alright and now let's move down
to our practical example which is the
non-inverting amplifier we can see this
is a non-inverting amplifier the input
is applied to the non-inverting input
terminal Vs and there is a feedback
network comprised of resistors RI and RF
I have connected in the feedback path
now our feedback network in this case is
going to be that voltage divider
over there and you can see that we are
sampling our output signal in shunt
perhaps represent that a bit
more clearly by writing it like this
my output signal is being taken between
the output notd and and ground so
essentially when you're sampling it from
here to ground that this were the other
end of Ri is going to sampling it in
shunt or in parallel and then the input
signal you are applying it in series so
essentially we also represent this as
follows
to make it more clear this is Vs and you
can see that this is
the feedback voltage will be VF the
voltage appearing between the output
right there of the feedback network and
the other output which goes to ground so
VF and Vin will
equal to Vs minus VF again from applying
KVL so let's take a look at how the
different parameters for a standard or
general feedback circuit apply here
first of all we have our feedback factor
beta
and in this case we can see that beta
is going to be the gain of the feedback
Network and essentially the ratio of VF
to Vout and we can see that in this
case is just a result of voltage
division between RF and RI and so VF is
going to be equal to V out times RI over
RI plus RF
that is my feedback factor or the gain
of my feedback loop then I have my
loop gain a beta is basically going to
be that times again so A times RI
divided by RI plus RF
my closed-loop gain AF is going to
be equal to the ratio of the outs to vs
and we know from our previous study that
it's going to be the open-loop gain
divided by the amount of feedback
and now if my open loop gain is
sufficiently high I will achieve gain
desensitization what do I mean by that
will mean that my closed loop gain will
become almost independent of the open
loop gain and pretty much just dependent
on the feedback network and let's see
how that works for values of the loop
gain much greater than 1 then I can
approximate my expression for AF my
closed loop gain as being approximately
1 over beta which is
RI + RF divided by RI just from the beta
expression up there which is 1 plus RF
over RI which matches the closed-loop
gain that we know for a non-inverting
amplifier we have seen when we can see
that you know the term of the open-loop
gain has disappeared since we know a
little bit more now about negative
feedback systems we expect that we are
also going to gain other things not just
the gain being independent of the
open-loop gain but we're going to also
get improvements in both input and
output resistance with respect to the
open loop amplifier and so when I have
it connected in feedback I expect my
input resistance is going to be the
input resistance of the op-amp
multiplied times the amount of feedback
and my output resistance for the overall
system is going to be equal to the
output resistance of the op-amp divided
by the loop gain of the amount of
feedback sorry
and so this corroborates what we know
both about the non-inverting amplifier
but also puts a little bit more in
context all these new parameters that we
have a study in negative feedback thank
you